General Acronyms
AOS - Acquisition of Signal - A phrase used during launch when communication with the vehicle is established to a ground station.
ACS - Attitude Control System - Synonymous with Reaction Control System. See Reaction Control System.
ACES - Advanced Cryogenic Evolved Stage - A LOX/LH2 upper stage being developed for ULA's Vulcan launch vehicle.
ARM - Asteroid Redirect Mission - A planned NASA mission to redirect an asteroid to lunar orbit for rendezvous with an Orion spacecraft.
ASDS - Autonomous Spaceport Drone Ship - SpaceX's custom-built landing ship.
ASOG - A Shortfall of Gravitas - Name of an upcoming ASDS.
BEAM - Bigelow Expandable Activities Module - An inflatable module designed by Bigelow Aerospace that was brought up to the ISS aboard CRS-8.
BFR - Big Falcon Rocket - Former codename of Starship, SpaceX's next-generation fully-reusable launch vehicle and interplanetary spacecraft.
BO - Blue Origin - Spaceflight and rocket company funded by Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon. See Competitors.
C3 - Characteristic Energy - A measure of escape velocity (<1: no escape, =1: escape with no further velocity, >1: escape with increasing velocity).
CAA - Crew Access Arm - Arm that swings out from the FSS (Fixed Service Structure) to give crew access to Dragon while on the pad.
CBM - Common Berthing Mechanism - A device used to attach Cargo Dragon and other cargo spacecraft to the ISS.
CCAFS - Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, east Florida coast.
CCDev - Commercial Crew Development - See FAQ/NASA.
CCiCap - Commercial Crew Integrated Capability - See FAQ/NASA.
CCtCap - Commercial Crew Transportation Capability - See FAQ/NASA.
COPV - Composite Overwrapped Pressure Vessel - A pressure tank constructed from a thin, non-structural liner wrapped with structural fiber composite.
COTS - Commercial Orbital Transportation Services - See FAQ/NASA.
CRS - Commercial Resupply Services - A contract that SpaceX and Orbital ATK both have with NASA to resupply the International Space Station. See FAQ/NASA.
Delta-v - Change in velocity - Used to measure the fuel expenditure of maneuvers, and the capacity of a rocket to execute said maneuvers.
Δv - Change in velocity - Used to measure the fuel expenditure of maneuvers, and the capacity of a rocket to execute said maneuvers.
DPL - Downrange Propulsive Landing (on an ocean barge/ASDS)
EAR - Export Administration Regulations - A US law that regulates the export of technology with "dual-use" applications (both commercial and military).
EDL - Entry, Descent and Landing - The series of controlled maneuvers and pathways used to land an orbiting spacecraft.
FRR - Flight Readiness Review - A paperwork exercise used to ensure that a rocket is ready to fly.
FSS - Fixed Service Structure - A structure on the pad at Launch Complex 39A, Cape Canaveral.
F1 - Falcon 1
F9 - Falcon 9
FH - Falcon Heavy
FPIP- Flight Planning Integration Panel
FRR - Flight Readiness Review
FT - Full Thrust (Falcon 9 v1.2)
GNC - Guidance, Navigation and Control (also GN&C, or G&C)
GSE - Ground Support Equipment - Any ground-based equipment used to enable a launch to occur.
HIF - Horizontal Integration Facility - facilities where SpaceX F9 and FH vehicles and their payloads are integrated horizontally (sideways instead of vertical). HIFs are built adjacent to the sites of SpaceX launch sites.
IAC - International Astronautical Congress - An annual conference held to discuss matters of relevance to the aerospace industry.
IIP - Instantaneous Impact Point - Refers to the point a rocket would land at if all propulsion was terminated at that moment.
IMMT - ISS Mission Management Team
ISRU - In-situ Resource Utilization - Refers to the mining and processing of the regolith/atmosphere of Mars, Moon, etc, for use as fuel, propellant, or other consumables.
Isp - Specific Impulse - A measure of the "fuel efficiency" of a rocket engine.
ISS - International Space Station - An internationally run habitable artificial satellite, in low Earth orbit.
ITS - Interplanetary Transport System - Planned SpaceX interplanetary cargo and crew transport, made of carbon composites. Later evolved into (stainless steel) Starship.
ITAR - International Traffic in Arms Regulations - A US law that regulates the export and import of military technology (including rockets).
JRTI - Just Read The Instructions (Marmac 303) - A moniker given to SpaceX's Pacific ASDS. See Vessels.
JWST - James Webb Space Telescope - A NASA space observatory under construction and scheduled to launch in the 2020s.
KSC - Kennedy Space Center - A NASA-run orbital launch center at Cape Canaveral, Florida.
L1 - Lagrange Point 1 - Usually used in reference to Earth-Sun L1, this is a region of space in which it is possible to "hover" in between the Earth and the Sun.
L2 - Also, Lagrange Point 2.
L2 - Paywalled section of NASA Spaceflight. See NASA Spaceflight.
LAS/LES - Launch Abort or Launch Escape System - The system that evacuates a capsule from a malfunctioning rocket.
LC-13 - Launch Complex 13, Cape Canaveral. See LZ-1 and LZ-2.
LC-39A - Launch Complex 39A, Cape Canaveral - Former launch site of Saturn V (Apollo) and Space Shuttle, currently leased to SpaceX.
LOM - Loss of Mission - The mission failing irrecoverably, often due to the the launch vehicle failing/exploding.
LOS - Loss of Signal - A phrase used during launch when communication with the vehicle is lost with a ground station, usually due to the spacecraft passing out of view of that particular ground station.
LOV - Loss of Vehicle - Mission failure due to launch vehicle failure.
LRR - Launch (vehicle) Readiness Review
LZ-1 and LZ-2 - SpaceX landing zones built on the site of Launch Complex 13, Cape Canaveral. Ground-pad landing site for launches from SLC-40 & LC-39A.
MA - Mission Assurance - An engineering process used to increase the chance of mission success.
MARS - Mid Atlantic Regional Spaceport - Launch site of Orbital ATK's Minotaur and Antares rockets.
MCT - Mars Colonial Transporter - A vehicle planned by SpaceX to transport humans to and from Mars. Renamed to Starship.
MECO - Main Engine Cutoff - During launch, the ending of the first stage engine burn.
NDA - Non-Disclosure Agreement - A legal contract signed by employees, wherein they agree not to leak sensitive information outside their workplace.
NDS - NASA Docking System - A device used to attach the crew Dragon to the ISS.
NET - No Earlier Than
NEO - Near Earth Orbit - Usually used to denote an Earth-crossing asteroid.
NSF - NASA Spaceflight/NASA Spaceflight Forum.
OCISLY - Of Course I Still Love You (Marmac 304) - SpaceX's Atlantic ASDS barge. See Vessels.
OLIT - Orbital Launch Integration Tower - A tower next to a Starship launch pad that places Starship atop a Superheavy booster and can catch returning boosters.
PIF - Payload Integration Facility
PICA-X - Phenolic Impregnated Carbon Ablator-X - The material used for the heat shields of the Dragon capsules.
PMA - Pressurized Mating Adapter - A device used on the ISS to convert a CBM port to an NDS port.
PMF - Propellant Mass Fraction, ratio of a rocket's total mass at launch to the mass of all propellants onboard. Typically around 0.95 for rockets.
RCS - Reaction Control System, a set of small thrusters that fire to rotate spacecraft and perform small maneuvers. Synonymous with Attitude Control System.
RSS - Rotating Service Structure - A structure on the pad at Launch Complex 39A, Cape Canaveral.
RUD - Rapid Unplanned/Unscheduled Disassembly - euphemism for catastrophic failure.
RTLS - Return To Launch Site - when a rocket stage returns to and lands on a pad near the launch site. Used by certain SpaceX Falcon 9 mission profiles.
SECO - Second (Stage) Engine Cutoff - During launch, the ending of the second stage engine burn.
SEP - Solar Electric Propulsion (solar panels plus ion thrusters) Used on SpaceX's Starlink satellites and various other spacecraft, including deep-space probes.
SLC-40 - Space Launch Complex 40, Cape Canaveral.
SLC-4E - Space Launch Complex 4 East, Vandenberg.
SLC-4W - Space Launch Complex 4 West, Vandenberg - SpaceX's chosen landing location for launches from SLC-4E.
SPIF - Spacecraft Processing and Integration Facility
SF - Static Fire - A short test prior to launch where the engines are fired for a few seconds.
SFN - Spaceflight Now - A website specializing in spaceflight news.
SSME - Space Shuttle Main Engine, a.k.a. Aerojet Rocketdyne RS-25.
SSTO - Single Stage To Orbit, a hypothesized vehicle class that does not use multiple stages to reach orbit.
T/E - Transporter/Erector - The structure that takes Falcon from a horizontal to vertical position, and holds the rocket in place on the pad.
TEL - Transporter Erector Launcher - T/E equivalent, the structure that takes Falcon from a horizontal to vertical position, and holds the rocket in place on the pad.
TRL - Technology Readiness Level - NASA's method of estimating technology maturity (1 = basic principles observed, 9 = in active service).
ULA - United Launch Alliance, joint venture of Boeing and Lockheed Martin, operates the Atlas V and Delta IV vehicles. See Competitors.
VAB - Vehicle Assembly Building at Kennedy Space Center.
VAFB - Vandenberg Air Force Base, California - The site of a SpaceX launch pad that is used for polar and retrograde-LEO flights.
VV - Visiting Vehicle - A term for any vehicle that visits the ISS.
WDR - Wet Dress Rehearsal - A procedure that involves the loading of propellants, and countdown to launch but without any actual firing of engines, so as to check out systems prior to the actual launch day.

Orbits / Orbital Maneuvers
BEO - Beyond Earth Orbit - any location or orbit outside of the Earth's gravitational influence
DRO - Distant Retrograde Orbit - a highly stable lunar orbit, proposed as the destination for the ARM asteroid
GEO - Geostationary Orbit - a circular geocentric orbit along the equator at 35,786 km altitude, with an orbital period of exactly one day
GTO - Geostationary Transfer Orbit - a highly elliptical geocentric orbit with perigee in LEO and apogee at or above GEO
HEO - High Earth Orbit - a geocentric orbit with an altitude above 35,786 km
LEO - Low Earth Orbit - a geocentric orbit with an altitude under 2,000 km
LOI - Lunar Orbit Insertion - a maneuver performed during Lunar fly-by which forces a spacecraft into Lunar orbit
MEO - Medium Earth Orbit - a geocentric orbit with an altitude between 2,000 km and 35,786 km
MOI - Mars Orbit Insertion - a maneuver performed during Mars fly-by which forces a spacecraft into an aerocentric orbit
SO - suborbital - a flight trajectory with enough kinetic energy to reach space, but not enough energy to reach orbit
TLI - Trans-Lunar Injection - a maneuver performed in geocentric orbit which puts an object on a trajectory towards the moon
TMI - Trans-Mars Injection - a maneuver performed in geocentric orbit which puts an object on a Mars-intercepting heliocentric orbit

Engines
M1A - Original version of Merlin 1 rocket motor - 340kN - 1st flown 2006
M1B - Version B of Merlin 1 - 360kN - never flown
M1C - Version C of Merlin 1 rocket motor - 556-660kN - 1st flown 2008
M1D - Version D of Merlin 1 rocket motor - 620-690kN - 1st flown 2013
M1DVac - Version D of Merlin 1 rocket motor - Optimized for vacuum - 934 kN - 1st flown 2013

Fuels / Propellants
CH4 - Methane - a simple hydrocarbon used as a cryogenic fuel
LH2 - Liquid Hydrogen (H2) - a very chemically simple cryogenic fuel
LNG - Liquid Natural Gas - a cryogenic mixture of simple hydrocarbons, usually 80-99% methane
LOX - Liquid Oxygen - a commonly used cryogenic oxidiser (used in Falcon)
MMH - Monomethyl Hydrazine - a highly toxic fuel that is liquid under standard conditions (used in Dragon)
N2O4 - Dinitrogen Tetroxide, aka DNTO - a highly toxic oxidiser that is liquid under standard conditions (used in Dragon)
RP-1 - Rocket Propellant-1, aka kerosene - a complex hydrocarbon used as a combustible fuel (used in Falcon) Launch Control Acronyms

These acronyms can be overheard when a go/no-go poll is performed before a launch.
AVI - Avionics Operator
CC - Communications Coordinator
CE - Chief Engineer
DC - Dragon Controller
FRC - Falcon Recovery Coordinator
FS - Flight Software
FSPO - Flight Safety Project Officer
FTS - Flight Termination System
GC - Ground Control
GNC - Guidance, Navigation, & Control
GS - Ground Station
LD - Launch Director
LDA - Launch Decision Authority
MM - Mission Manager
OD - Orbital Director (?)
OSM - Operations Safety Manager
Prop - Propulsion
RC - Range Coordinator
Recovery - Landing and Recovery
RCO - Range Control Officer
ROC - Range Operations Coordinator
SE - Systems Engineer (?)
TVC - Thrust Vector Control
VC - Vehicle Control